# KonstantinosFasourasFT
Konstantinos Fasouras final thesis at University of Primorska, FAMNIT.

The final project examines the problem of acquiring EEG data from the Cognionics Quick-20 device into the Matlab environment, which is suitable for data processing and analysis. Cognionics provides a CGX data acquisition software that runs on the Windows operating system and allows the transmission of acquired signals to other devices and other environments using the Lab Streaming Layer (LSL) interface. We propose a simpler and less restrictive solution by acquiring data directly in the Matlab environment, regardless of the operating system used. The proposed solution is suitable for integration with any EEG data processing and analysis procedure, as it is implemented in the form of a separate module called EDAM (EEG Data Acquisition and MATLAB). The module is implemented as a class with an intuitive external programming interface. We demonstrate its functionality with a simple application that can acquire EEG data and display it on a graphical user interface. This includes plotting EEG signals and displaying the map of measured impedances for all EEG electrodes, both in real time. The development of the proposed solution is described based on phases of software engineering, from the presentation of the problem and the conceptual design, through analysis, planning, implementation and, finally, the brief testing of the solution.

In order to run the application, just run the UI.mlapp file and in line 177 insert the serial port's name that the EEG device is connected to your computer.